Someday I will have a place to put all my collections. It will most likely be my basement, or a little corner of my basement. But I didn't write Star Wars. If I had, I might be able to build a museum on the sparkling lakefront of Chicago, right next to Soldier Field. George Lucas did write Star Wars, and his art and memorabilia collections will be housed in his Museum of Narrative Art in the Windy City.

Lucas just announced that Beijing-based MAD Architects will design the museum, while Chicago firm Studio Gang Architects will be responsible for the surrounding landscape and a pedestrian bridge that links nearby peninsula Northerly Island with the city. It should be a stunning addition to the collection of shoreline museums, but it has encountered opposition from open-space advocates and Bears fans, as the museum will occupy part of their tailgating field.

In honor of the Museum of Narrative Art and its star-studded cast of architects, here's a roundup of articles from Architizer that feature Star Wars-related architecture:

Jeff Bennett's Wars on Kinkade are hilarious paintings that ravage the peaceful landscapes of Thomas Kinkade with the brutal destruction of Star Wars. It is not unlike a contemporary rendering, which combines Sci-fi and Romantic notions, and we have examples with ratings.

Rä di Martino, a visual artist and filmmaker, found the ruins of Star Wars sets, and photographed them in her two series, No More Stars (Star Wars) and EVERY WORLD’S A STAGE. These haunting images show a world far, far away, now left as ghost towns.

These products were inspired by the movie and blend pop culture memorabilia with high design, including Hans Solo Carbonite Coffee Tables, Emperor Thrones, and an AT-AT Triple Bunk Bed.

We explore the designs and the blueprints behind the architecture of the Rebel Alliance and the Empire.

Artist Cédric Delsaux photoshops Star Wars characters and ships into everyday environments. Stormtroopers roam parking lots, the Millennium Falcon visits a Dubai construction site, and the Emperor lurks in the suburbs.

Aedas appropriates the Sandcrawler for an office building, but replaces the weathered, rough brown material (COR-TEN?) with shiny glass and the treads with landscaping.
The story of artist Ralph McQuarrie, the man who helped George Lucas realize his visions.